docs/bootloader/transaction_format.md, before:

# Transaction format

ZKsyncOS expects transactions with the following fields:

| Field                     | Type         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|---------------------------|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `tx_type`                 | `u8`         | Type of the transaction. See the table below for supported values.                                                                                                                                                              |
| `from`                    | `B160`       | Caller.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `to`                      | `B160`       | Callee.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `gas_limit`               | `u64`        | Same meaning as Ethereum's `gasLimit`.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `gas_per_pubdata_limit`   | `u32`        | Maximum gas the user is willing to pay for a byte of [pubdata](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/contracts/handling-pubdata).                                                                                               |
| `max_fee_per_gas`         | `u128`       | Maximum fee per gas the user is willing to pay. Akin to EIP-1559's `maxFeePerGas`.                                                                                                                                               |
| `max_priority_fee_per_gas`| `u128`       | Maximum priority fee per gas the user is willing to pay. Akin to EIP-1559's `maxPriorityFeePerGas`.                                                                                                                             |
| `paymaster`               | `B160`       | Transaction's paymaster. If none, it is equal to 0.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `nonce`                   | `U256`       | Nonce of the transaction.                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `value`                   | `U256`       | Value to pass with the transaction.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `reserved`                | `[U256; 4]`  | Extra data for future use. See the table below for details on reserved fields.                                                                                                                                                   |
| `data`                    | `bytes`      | The calldata.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `signature`               | `bytes`      | Signature of the transaction.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `factory_deps`            | `bytes`      | Only for EraVM. Properly formatted hashes of bytecodes to be published on L1 with this transaction. Previously published bytecodes won't incur additional fees.                                                                  |
| `paymaster_input`         | `bytes`      | Input for the paymaster.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `reserved_dynamic`        | `bytes`      | Field used for extra functionality. Currently, it's only used for the access list. The field is encoded as the ABI encoding of a bytestring containing the ABI encoding of `tuple(address, bytes32[])[][]`,  i.e. a list of lists of (address, keys) pairs. We use the outer list to be able to extend the use of this field, but for now it should only have 1 element.                                                                                                                   |

### Transaction Types

| Value   | Description                                                                                       |
|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `0x0`   | Legacy transaction.                                                                              |
| `0x1`   | EIP-2930 transaction.                                                                            |
| `0x2`   | EIP-1559 transaction.                                                                            |
| `0x71`  | EIP-712 transaction following the [Era format](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/rollup/transaction-lifecycle#eip-712-0x71). |
| `0xFF`  | L1 -> L2 transaction.                                                                            |

### Reserved Fields

| Index   | L2 Transactions Description                                                                 | L1 Transactions Description                                                                 |
|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `0`     | Distinguishes EIP-155 (chain id) legacy transactions.                                       | Holds the total deposit.                                                                    |
| `1`     | EVM deployment transaction flag.                                                            | Refund recipient.                                                                           |
| `2`     | Reserved for future use.                                                                    | Reserved for future use.                                                                    |
| `3`     | Reserved for future use.                                                                    | Reserved for future use.                                                                    |

Transactions are encoded using the tightly packed ABI encoding for this list of fields. All numeric types are encoded as big-endian `U256`. Encoding and hashing of transactions is implemented in this [module](../../basic_bootloader/src/bootloader/transaction/mod.rs).

Commit message:

feat(7702): Support parsing and hashing 7702 tx type (#154)
## What ❔

<!-- What are the changes this PR brings about? -->
<!-- Example: This PR adds a PR template to the repo. -->
<!-- (For bigger PRs adding more context is appreciated) -->

## Why ❔

<!-- Why are these changes done? What goal do they contribute to? What
are the principles behind them? -->
<!-- The `Why` has to be clear to non-Matter Labs entities running their
own ZK Chain -->
<!-- Example: PR templates ensure PR reviewers, observers, and future
iterators are in context about the evolution of repos. -->

## Is this a breaking change?
- [ ] Yes
- [ ] No

## Checklist

<!-- Check your PR fulfills the following items. -->
<!-- For draft PRs check the boxes as you complete them. -->

- [ ] PR title corresponds to the body of PR (we generate changelog
entries from PRs).
- [ ] Tests for the changes have been added / updated.
- [ ] Documentation comments have been added / updated.
- [ ] Code has been formatted.

---------

Co-authored-by: Vladislav Volosnikov <Volosnikov.apmath@gmail.com>

docs/bootloader/transaction_format.md, after:

# Transaction format

ZKsyncOS expects transactions with the following fields:

| Field                     | Type         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|---------------------------|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `tx_type`                 | `u8`         | Type of the transaction. See the table below for supported values.                                                                                                                                                              |
| `from`                    | `B160`       | Caller.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `to`                      | `B160`       | Callee.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `gas_limit`               | `u64`        | Same meaning as Ethereum's `gasLimit`.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `gas_per_pubdata_limit`   | `u32`        | Maximum gas the user is willing to pay for a byte of [pubdata](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/contracts/handling-pubdata).                                                                                               |
| `max_fee_per_gas`         | `u128`       | Maximum fee per gas the user is willing to pay. Akin to EIP-1559's `maxFeePerGas`.                                                                                                                                               |
| `max_priority_fee_per_gas`| `u128`       | Maximum priority fee per gas the user is willing to pay. Akin to EIP-1559's `maxPriorityFeePerGas`.                                                                                                                             |
| `paymaster`               | `B160`       | Transaction's paymaster. If none, it is equal to 0.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `nonce`                   | `U256`       | Nonce of the transaction.                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `value`                   | `U256`       | Value to pass with the transaction.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `reserved`                | `[U256; 4]`  | Extra data for future use. See the table below for details on reserved fields.                                                                                                                                                   |
| `data`                    | `bytes`      | The calldata.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `signature`               | `bytes`      | Signature of the transaction.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `factory_deps`            | `bytes`      | Only for EraVM. Properly formatted hashes of bytecodes to be published on L1 with this transaction. Previously published bytecodes won't incur additional fees.                                                                  |
| `paymaster_input`         | `bytes`      | Input for the paymaster.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `reserved_dynamic`        | `bytes`      | Field used for extra functionality.  Currently, it's used for access and authorization lists. The field is encoded as a list, to be able to extend it in the future. The field is encoded a the ABI encoding of a bytestring containing the ABI encoding of the list itself. Currently the list contains 2 elements. First, the access list: encoded as `tuple(address, bytes32[])[]`, i.e. a list of (address, keys) pairs. Second, the authorization list: encoded as `tuple(chain_id, address, nonce, y_parity, r, s)[]`.                                                  |

### Transaction Types

| Value   | Description                                                                                       |
|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `0x0`   | Legacy transaction.                                                                              |
| `0x1`   | EIP-2930 transaction.                                                                            |
| `0x2`   | EIP-1559 transaction.                                                                            |
| `0x4`   | EIP-7702 transaction.                                                                            |
| `0x71`  | EIP-712 transaction following the [Era format](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/rollup/transaction-lifecycle#eip-712-0x71). |
| `0xFF`  | L1 -> L2 transaction.                                                                            |

### Reserved Fields

| Index   | L2 Transactions Description                                                                 | L1 Transactions Description                                                                 |
|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `0`     | Distinguishes EIP-155 (chain id) legacy transactions.                                       | Holds the total deposit.                                                                    |
| `1`     | EVM deployment transaction flag.                                                            | Refund recipient.                                                                           |
| `2`     | Reserved for future use.                                                                    | Reserved for future use.                                                                    |
| `3`     | Reserved for future use.                                                                    | Reserved for future use.                                                                    |

Transactions are encoded using the tightly packed ABI encoding for this list of fields. All numeric types are encoded as big-endian `U256`. Encoding and hashing of transactions is implemented in this [module](../../basic_bootloader/src/bootloader/transaction/mod.rs).
